DEEP LEARNING – WORKSHEET 3
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which of the following is true about model capacity (where model capacity means the ability of neural network to approximate complex functions)?
A) As dropout ratio increases, model capacity increases
B) As number of hidden layers increase, model capacity increases
C) As learning rate increases, model capacity increases
D) None of the above
Ans:- B

2. Batch Normalization is helpful because?
A) It is a very efficient backpropagation technique
B) It returns back the normalized mean and standard deviation of weights
C) It normalizes (changes) all the input before sending it to the next layer
D) None of the above
Ans:- C

3. What if we use a learning rate that’s too large?
A) Network will not converge B) Network will converge
C) either A or B D) None of the above
Ans:- B

4. What are the factors to select the depth of neural network?
i) Type of neural network (e.g. MLP, CNN etc.)
ii) Input data
iii) Computation power, i.e. Hardware capabilities and software capabilities
iv) Learning Rate
v) The output function to map
A) 1, 2, 4, 5 B) 2, 3, 4, 5
C) 1, 3, 4, 5 D) All of these
Ans:- A

5. Suppose you have inputs as x, y, and z with values -2, 5, and -4 respectively. You have a neuron ‘q’ and neuron ‘f’ with functions:
q = x + y
f = q * z
Graphical representation of the functions is as follows:
What is the gradient of F with respect to x, y, and z? (use chain rule of derivatives to find the solution)
A) (3, -4, -4) B) (-3, 4, 4)
C) (-4, -4, 3) D) (4, 4, 3)
Ans:- A

6. Which of the following statement is the best description of early stopping?
A) Train the network until a local minimum in the error function is reached
B) Simulate the network on a test dataset after every epoch of training. Stop training when the generalization
error starts to increase
C) Add a momentum term to the weight update in the Generalized Delta Rule, so that training converges more
quickly
D) None of the above
Ans:- B

7. Which gradient descent technique is more advantageous when the data is too big to handle in RAM simultaneously?
A) Mini Batch Gradient Descent B) Stochastic Gradient Descent
C) Full Batch Gradient Descent D) either A or B
Ans:- B

8. Consider the scenario. The problem you are trying to solve has a small amount of data. Fortunately, you have a pre-trained neural network that was trained on a similar problem. Which of the following methodologies would you choose to make use of this pre-trained network?
A) Freeze all the layers except the last, re-train the last layer
B) Assess on every layer how the model performs and only select a few of them
C) Fine tune the last couple of layers only
D) Re-train the model for the new dataset
Ans:- B

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. Which of the following neural network training challenge can be solved using batch normalization?
A) Overfitting B) Training is too slow
C) Restrict activations to become too high or low
D) None of these
Ans:- B, C

10. For a binary classification problem, which of the following activations may be used in output layer?
A) ReLU B) sigmoid
C) softmax D) Leaky ReLU
Ans:- A,B

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. What will happen if we do not use activation function in artificial neural networks?
Ans:- 
The activation function adds non-linearity to the output of the neural network. If there were no activation functions the entire network would only be able to model linear functions.

12. How does forward propagation and backpropagation work in deep learning?
Ans:-
In the forward propagation, we check what the neural network predicts for the first training example with initial weights and bias and in backpropagation we update the weight such that our loss function get minimize.

13. Explain briefly the following variant of Gradient Descent: Stochastic, Batch, and Mini-batch?
Ans:-
Batch Gradient Descent: 
This is a type of gradient descent which processes all the training examples for each iteration of gradient descent. But if the number of training examples is large, then batch gradient descent is computationally very expensive. Hence if the number of training examples is large, then batch gradient descent is not preferred. Instead, we prefer to use stochastic gradient descent or mini-batch gradient descent. 
Stochastic Gradient Descent:
This is a type of gradient descent which processes 1 training example per iteration. Hence, the parameters are being updated even after one iteration in which only a single example has been processed. Hence this is quite faster than batch gradient descent. But again, when the number of training examples is large, even then it processes only one example which can be additional overhead for the system as the number of iterations will be quite large. 
Mini Batch gradient descent: 
This is a type of gradient descent which works faster than both batch gradient descent and stochastic gradient descent. Here b examples whereb<m are processed per iteration. So even if the number of training examples is large, it is processed in batches of b training examples in one go. Thus, it works for larger training examples and that too with lesser number of iterations.

14. What are the main benefits of Mini-batch Gradient Descent?
Ans:-
	1. Easily fits in the memory 
	2. It is computationally efficient Benefit from vectorization 
	3. If stuck in local minimums, some noisy steps can lead the way out of them 
	4. Average of the training samples produces stable error gradients and convergence


15. What is transfer learning?
Ans:-
Transfer learning is a machine learning method where a model developed for a task is reused as the starting point for a model on a second task. It is a popular approach in deep learning where pre-trained models are used as the starting point on computer vision and natural language processing tasks given the vast compute and time resources required to develop neural network models on these problems and from the huge jumps in skill that they provide on related problems.